all right I'm shooting this video at 60
frames per second instead of my regular
frame rate because I'm trying to
showcase some high frame rate in gaming
but 4k 60 is the best that YouTube can
do I'd love to show you some super high
frame rate stuff but we're stuck at 60
now this video a little bit different
because we're in this quarantine time
period I've been just spending a lot of
time indoors and we have in front of me
a bunch of 2020 gaming laptops so some
of these are running some Intel chips
the 10th gen Intel CPUs some of these
are running the AMD Rison
they're upcoming stuff but because
there's been spending so much time
playing games on these things just
testing them out I wanted to do a video
showcasing the screens like these new
300 Hertz screens that are popping up in
all the kind of top-tier gaming laptops
do they actually make a difference when
it comes to gaming because I'm someone
that plays games a lot and I want to
know does my gameplay actually improve
am I a better player with these faster
screens and it's important for people
that are buying a device this year or
even if you're buying something that's
older or if you have something that's
older to see what you're missing if
anything at all so just some background
information a screen refresh rate when
it comes to laptops or any kind of
digital screen their standard screen is
a 60 Hertz screen so it's redrawing a
refreshing that's green 60 times a
second so you're kind of productivity
based laptop or like a MacBook or your
standard phone has a 60 Hertz screen a
few years ago gaming laptop start to get
120 Hertz screens and that difference
between 60 and 120 was massive like even
non gamers could tell there was a big
difference between those devices like
look at phones phones have starting to
pick up high refresh screens because
their stuff even the UI looks so much
better so over the years they've just
gotten faster and faster so I went from
120 to 144 and then last year went to
240 and now we're at 300 Hertz but there
is a very fierce degree of diminishing
returns when it comes to refresh rate on
displays like once you go past 120 you
need to start making some bigger and
bigger jumps for there to be any kind of
perceivable improvement in visual
experience and compounded by the fact
that there's a you know there's a degree
of marketing here they're trying to sell
you something new every
year so I approached these new screens
with this with this healthy dose of
skepticism right like does this actually
make a difference when I'm playing games
so I booted up the msi jia 66 i
installed overwatch and i could
immediately tell that something was
making this game look extra smooth on
this display so here's the thing I have
played a lot of overwatch like we're
talking a thousand hours probably more
and I test that on every single gaming
laptop that I get in it's like I know
overwatch I know the way it looks on
laptop screens and looked particularly
good on the GS 66 so then I stepped back
and I was like I'm not even getting 300
frames per second like I was floating
around to 50 to 60 so it's not like it's
the frame rate that's doing it and I
realized that this has a three
millisecond response time which is
relatively fast I say relatively because
gaming desktops like their monitors can
hit one millisecond sometimes even less
but for a laptop three milliseconds is
really fast also this isn't like the
first three millisecond response time
screen ever viewed on a laptop but the
combination of a 300 Hertz screen along
with the three millisecond response time
makes it something special so response
time is the time it takes for a pixel to
change from one color to another but the
way that it's measured and the way that
it's marketed varies drastically between
companies so it's actually difficult to
compare like the face value of you know
the the listed response time of screens
from laptop manufacturers and also for
validating it like if I wanted to test
the response time of these displays it's
quite complicated you need an
oscilloscope and I'm assuming some kind
of sensor to convert light data into a
voltage readout point being it's more
complex than what I normally get into I
may have to invest it in the future but
right now without any of that gear I can
tell immediately that a 300 Hertz 3
millisecond screen is a better and
faster and smoother gaming experience
than what I had in the past which was a
240 Hertz screen and I think the blade
is 7 maybe 6 millisecond response time
it is very noticeable so easily the game
I play overwatch has a character called
Reaper and he's the guy that I'm playing
a lot of recently his weapons are these
shotguns so you have to go really close
to the opponent
to make them effective if you shoot from
far away they're not particularly good
and because he doesn't have a lot of
health you've got to make those shots
counted like when you close in on
someone you have to do good damage or
else you're probably gonna die and when
you're up close like this the screen is
moving very fast like again it's hard to
showcase in this video because we're
only seeing in 60 frames per second but
your eye has to track what your
opponents doing and you have to react to
that it's very different from shooting
something that's far away like in a game
when you're kind of looking further away
and tracking something that's in the
distance I don't think response rate is
as important when you're up close and in
someone's grill and there's a crazy
amount of movement happening on-screen I
think a high refresh low response rate
screen can make a difference there's
just less ghosting and motion blur
happening so after some fairly extensive
but very unscientific testing like we're
talking 35 40 hours of overwatch
gameplay between several laptops I just
did better on these new screens I hit
more shots and I felt like gos moving
and performing a little bit better with
this faster screen I don't think it was
the increase in refresh rate right I
think was more the reduction in response
time on this three millisecond screen
and I hope going forward that
manufacturers focus on response time and
like lowering that number from three to
two hopefully one instead of just trying
to bump up refresh rate because we're
limited right the hardware on these
devices can only go so far like if you
notice the game in this video that I
talked about the most was overwatch a
four year old game that's not
particularly demanding for hardware and
even then I had a really tough time
hitting 303 is per second even with good
hardware so the focus at this point I
don't think it should be refresh rate
but more response time the lower the
response time these days the better the
experience that you're gonna get and the
good thing is that this whole feature of
fast response time is not a premium
feature like there are some valley
laptops out there like the Helios 300
that can hit three milliseconds as well
so you don't need to have a crazy
expensive laptop to have this kind of
feature there is a disadvantage though
if you've noticed I never went for three
millisecond screens in the past even the
one I use right now the blade is a
slower response time and the reason
being when you have this type of
response rate you sacrifice color
krisi and brightness sometimes but the
big thing for me was color accuracy the
blade is a slower screen but it is one
of the most color accurate gaming
screens on the market so that's why I
went with that but if you want the
fastest and smoothest gaming experience
possible you got to go for that fast
response time oh one other thing this
year we're starting to see smaller
laptops with also fast refresh screen so
this is the g14 from Asus the review of
this was gonna be dropping very soon
almost done with it but this is one of
the first devices out there with a
14-inch 120 Hertz screen like there's
something we never saw before so I think
this year we're gonna see other
manufacturers making smaller devices but
also with high refresh gaming laptop
screens okay hope you guys enjoyed this
video I will end this thing with some
gameplay footage so give me some thumbs
we liked it
subs if you loved it see you guys next
time
need to recharge machines
just stomping off my shield